.TH BRAINREST 1 "November 2025" "version 1.0.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
brainrest \- micro-break reminder and system uptime tracker

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B brainrest
[\-t] [\-r] [\-g minutes] [\-f] [\-h] [\-v]

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B brainrest
utility helps users take regular micro-breaks while working. It keeps track of
the last recorded break time and can display the system uptime, time since the
last break, and reminder intervals.

A small log file is stored in the user's home directory to record the timestamp
of the most recent break.

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.BR \-t ", " \-\-time
Show system uptime in minutes and the time since the last break. No changes are
made to the break history.

.TP
.BR \-r ", " \-\-reset
Reset break history by clearing the log file. This removes the recorded
timestamp of the last break.

.TP
.BR \-g " " \fIMINUTES\fR ", " \-\-gap=\fIMINUTES\fR
Set the reminder gap in minutes. If the time since the last break is greater
than or equal to this gap, a reminder will be shown. Default is 40 minutes.

.TP
.BR \-f ", " \-\-force
Record a break immediately without asking the user. The timestamp stored in the
log file will be updated.

.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Show help information and exit.

.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-version
Show program version and exit.

.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.brainrest.log
Stores the timestamp of the last recorded break.

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Show system uptime and last break time:
.br
 brainrest \-t

.TP
Reset break history:
.br
 brainrest \-r

.TP
Set reminder interval to 50 minutes:
.br
 brainrest \-g 50

.TP
Log a break without prompting:
.br
 brainrest \-f

.SH AUTHOR
Written by Siripireddy Giri.

.SH VERSION
1.0.0

